'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de M    \" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH drmaa_submit 3 "2008-07-08" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx DRMAA"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
drmaa_run_job, drmaa_run_bulk_jobs, drmaa_get_next_job_id, drmaa_get_num_job_ids, drmaa_release_job_ids \- Job submission
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include """drmaa.h"""
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\"
.nf
\fBint drmaa_run_job(\fP
.RS
.BI "char *" job_id ,
.BI size_t\  job_id_len ,
.BI "drmaa_job_template_t *" jt ,
.BI "char *" error_diagnosis ,
.BI size_t\  error_diag_len
.RE
.fi
\fB);\fP
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\"
.nf
\fBint drmaa_run_bulk_jobs(\fP
.RS
.BI "drmaa_job_ids_t **" jobids ,
.BI "drmaa_job_template_t *" jt ,
.BI int\  start ,
.BI int\  end ,
.BI int\  incr ,
.BI "char *" error_diagnosis ,
.BI size_t\  error_diag_len
.RE
.fi
\fB);\fP
.PP
.\"
.\"
.nf
\fBint drmaa_get_next_job_id(\fP
.RS
.BI "drmaa_job_ids_t *" values ,
.BI "char *" value ,
.BI int\  value_len
.RE
.fi
\fB);\fP
.PP
.\"
.\"
.nf
\fBint drmaa_get_num_job_ids(\fP
.RS
.BI "drmaa_job_ids_t *" values ,
.BI "int *" size
.RE
.fi
\fB);\fP
.PP
.\"
.\"
.nf
\fBvoid drmaa_release_job_ids(\fB
.RS
.BI "drmaa_job_ids_t *" values
.RE
.fi
\fB);\fP
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
drmaa_run_job() submits an xxQS_NAMExx job with attributes defined in
the DRMAA job template \fIjt\fP. On success up to \fIjob_id_len\fP
bytes of the job identifier are returned into the buffer,
\fIjob_id\fP.  Note the effect of the
\fBSGE_DRMAA_ALLOW_JOB_ERROR_STATE\fP environment variable, as below.
.\" 
.SS "drmaa_run_bulk_jobs()"
The drmaa_run_bulk_jobs() submits a xxQS_NAMExx array job very much as if the
.M qsub 1 
option `\-t \fIstart\fP\-\fIend\fP:\fIincr\fP' had been used along with the additional
attributes defined in the DRMAA job 
template, \fIjt\fP.  The same constraints regarding value ranges are also in effect
for the parameters \fIstart\fP, \fIend\fP, and \fIincr\fP as for
.M qsub 5
\-t. On success a DRMAA job id string
vector containing job identifiers for each array job task is returned into \fIjobids\fP. 
The job identifiers in the job id string
vector can be extracted using
.M drmaa_get_next_job_id 3 .
The number of identifiers in the job id string vector can be determined using
.M drmaa_get_num_job_ids 3 .
Note that this function is only available in the 1.0 implementation.
The caller is responsible for releasing the job id string
vector returned into \fIjobids\fP using
.M drmaa_release_job_ids 3 .
.PP
.\"
.SS "drmaa_get_next_job_id()"
Each time drmaa_get_next_job_id() is called it returns into the buffer, \fIvalue\fP, up to \fIvalue_len\fP 
bytes of the next entry stored in the DRMAA job id string vector, \fIvalues\fP.
Once the job ids list has been exhausted, DRMAA_ERRNO_NO_MORE_ELEMENTS is returned.
.PP
.\" 
.SS "drmaa_get_num_job_ids()"
The drmaa_get_num_job_ids() returns into \fIsize\fP the number of entries
in the DRMAA job ids string vector.  This function is only available in the 1.0
implementation.
.PP
.\"
.SS "drmaa_release_job_ids()"
The drmaa_release_attr_job_id() function releases all resources associated with the DRMAA job id
string vector, \fIvalues\fP. This operation has no effect on the actual xxQS_NAMExx array job 
tasks.
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENTAL VARIABLES"
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_ROOT\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the location of the xxQS_NAMExx standard configuration files.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the default xxQS_NAMExx cell to be used. To address a xxQS_NAMExx
cell xxQS_NAMExx uses (in the order of precedence):
.sp 1
.RS
.RS
The name of the cell specified in the environment
variable xxQS_NAME_Sxx_CELL, if it is set.
.sp 1
The name of the default cell, i.e. \fBdefault\fP.
.sp 1
.RE
.RE
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_DEBUG_LEVEL\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies that debug information
should be written to stderr. In addition the level of
detail in which debug information is generated is defined.
.\"
.IP "\fBxxQS_NAME_Sxx_QMASTER_PORT\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the tcp port on which
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
is expected to listen for communication requests.
Most installations will use a services map entry instead
to define that port.
.\"
.IP "\fBSGE_DRMAA_ALLOW_JOB_ERROR_STATE\fP" 1.5i
If set, in case of job errors the job will enter the error state.  By
default DRMAA jobs are not allowed to enter the job error state since
an error state does not exist in DRMAA, so jobs with, say, a wrong
input path specification, must fail when doing drmaa_wait().
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon successful completion, drmaa_run_job(), drmaa_run_bulk_jobs(), and drmaa_get_next_job_id()
return DRMAA_ERRNO_SUCCESS. Other values indicate an error.
Up to \fIerror_diag_len\fP characters of error related diagnosis 
information is then provided in the buffer \fIerror_diagnosis\fP.
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH "ERRORS"
The drmaa_run_job(), drmaa_run_bulk_jobs(), and
drmaa_get_next_job_id() functions can fail with:
.\"
.TP
.B DRMAA_ERRNO_INTERNAL_ERROR
Unexpected or internal DRMAA error, like system call failure, etc.
.\" 
.TP
.B DRMAA_ERRNO_DRM_COMMUNICATION_FAILURE
Could not contact DRM system for this request.
.\" 
.TP
.B DRMAA_ERRNO_AUTH_FAILURE
The specified request is not processed successfully due to authorization failure.
.\" 
.TP
.B DRMAA_ERRNO_INVALID_ARGUMENT
The input value for an argument is invalid.
.\" 
.TP
.B DRMAA_ERRNO_NO_ACTIVE_SESSION
Failed because there is no active session.
.\" 
.TP
.B DRMAA_ERRNO_NO_MEMORY
Failed allocating memory.
.\" 
.PP
The drmaa_run_job() and drmaa_run_bulk_jobs() functions can fail with:
.TP
.B DRMAA_ERRNO_TRY_LATER 
The DRM system indicated that it is too busy to accept the job. A retry may succeed, however.
.\" 
.TP
.B DRMAA_ERRNO_DENIED_BY_DRM
The DRM system rejected the job. The job will never be accepted due to DRM configuration or job template settings.
.\" 
.PP
The drmaa_get_next_job_id() function can fail with:
.TP
.B DRMAA_ERRNO_INVALID_ATTRIBUTE_VALUE
When there are no more entries in the vector.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M drmaa_attributes 3 ,
.M drmaa_jobtemplate 3 .
