'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (C) 2012 Dave Love, University of Liverpool
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: bootstrap.5,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2011-05-14 14:50:22 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.10 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\" "
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.de MO		\" other man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.\"
.TH BOOTSTRAP 5 2012-04-26 "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx File Formats"
.\"
.SH NAME
bootstrap \- xxQS_NAMExx bootstrap file
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I bootstrap
contains parameters that are needed for the startup of xxQS_NAMExx components.
It is created during the xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster installation.
Modifying
.I bootstrap
in a running system is not supported.
.PP
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.\"
The paragraphs that follow provide brief descriptions of the individual
parameters that comprise the bootstrap configuration for a
xxQS_NAMExx cluster:
.\"
.SS "\fBadmin_user\fP"
Administrative user account used by xxQS_NAMExx for all internal file
handling (status spooling, message logging, etc.). Can be used in cases
where the root account does not have the corresponding file access
permissions (e.g. on a shared file system without global root read/write
access).
.PP
As a parameter set at installation time, changing \fBadmin_user\fP in
a running system is not supported. Changing it manually on a shut-down cluster
is possible, but if access to the xxQS_NAMExx spooling area is interrupted, 
this will result in unpredictable behavior.

The \fBadmin_user\fP parameter has no default value, but instead it is
defined during the master installation procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBdefault_domain\fP"
Only needed if your xxQS_NAMExx cluster covers hosts belonging to more than
a single DNS domain. In this case it can be used if your hostname resolving 
yields both qualified and unqualified hostnames for the hosts in one of the 
DNS domains. 
The value of
.B default_domain
is appended to the unqualified hostname to define a fully qualified hostname.
The 
.B default_domain
parameter will have no effect if 
.B ignore_fqdn
is set to "true".
.sp 1
As a parameter set at installation time, changing
.B default_domain
in a running system is not supported. The default for
.B default_domain
is "none", in which case it will not be used.
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBignore_fqdn\fP"
Ignore fully qualified domain name component of hostnames. Should be set 
if all hosts belonging to a xxQS_NAMExx cluster are part of a single DNS 
domain. It is switched on if set to either "true" or "1". Switching it 
on may solve problems with load reports due to different hostname 
resolutions across the cluster.
.sp 1
As a parameter set at installation time, changing
.B ignore_fqdn
in a running system is not supported. The default for
.B ignore_fqdn
is "true".
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBspooling_method\fP"
Defines how 
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
writes its configuration and the status information of a running cluster.
.PP
The available spooling methods are \fIberkeleydb\fP and \fIclassic\fP.
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBspooling_lib\fP"
The name of a shared library containing the \fBspooling_method\fP to be loaded 
at 
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
initialization time.
The extension characterizing a shared library (.so, .sl, .dylib etc.) is not contained in \fBspooling_lib\fP.
.PP
If \fBspooling_method\fP was set to \fIberkeleydb\fP during
installation, \fBspooling_lib\fP is set to \fIlibspoolb\fP, and if
\fIclassic\fP was chosen as \fBspooling_method\fP, \fBspooling_lib\fP
is set to \fIlibspoolc\fP.
.PP
Not all operating systems allow the dynamic loading of libraries. On these
platforms a certain spooling method (default: berkeleydb) is compiled into the binaries and the 
parameter \fBspooling_lib\fP will be ignored.
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBspooling_params\fP"
Defines parameters of the chosen spooling method that are needed to
initialize the spooling framework, e.g. to open database files.
.PP
The spooling parameters value for spooling method \fIberkeleydb\fP is
.br
  [\fIrpc_server\fP\fB:\fP]\fIdatabase directory\fP[\fB;\fP<options>]
.br
e.g. "/opt/sge/default/spool/qmaster/spooldb" for spooling to a local
filesystem, or "myhost:sge" for spooling over a Berkeley DB RPC server.
.PP
\fIrpc_server\fP is obsolete since recent BDB versions don't support
RPC and support has been removed from xxQS_NAMExx; it must be replaced
if it occurs in an old configuration before an upgrade.
\fIdatabase directory\fP is the directory containing the
spool files, and \fIoptions\fP is a list of options for the database.
Currently the only valid value for \fIoptions\fP is \fBprivate\fP,
which means to open the database with the DB_PRIVATE flag to specify
that it is only accessed by a single process.  This allows the
\fIdatabase directory\fP to be on an NFSv3 filesystem (as opposed to
an NFSv4 one, which is otherwise necessary), but it is unsafe to
access it with any other program.  In particular, this means that the
backup script (inst_sge \-bup), similar scripts using the DB
utilities, 
.I spooledit
etc., must not be used while qmaster is running with berkeleydb
spooling.
.PP
For spooling method \fIclassic\fP the spooling parameters take the form
<common_dir>;<qmaster spool dir>, e.g.
/sge/default/common;/sge/default/spool/qmaster
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBbinary_path\fP"
The directory path where the xxQS_NAMExx binaries reside. It is used within
xxQS_NAMExx components to locate and startup other xxQS_NAMExx programs.
.PP
The path name given here is searched for binaries as well as any directory
below with a directory name equal to the current operating system
architecture. Therefore, /usr/xxQS_NAME_Sxx/bin will work for all architectures,
if the corresponding binaries are located in subdirectories named aix51,
lx-amd64, lx-x86, hp11, hp11-64, sol-amd64, sol-sparc etc.
.PP
The default location for the binary path is
<xxqs_name_sxx_root>/bin
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBqmaster_spool_dir\fP"
The location where the master spool directory resides. Only the
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
and 
.M xxqs_name_sxx_shadowd 8
need to have access to this directory. 
The master spool directory \- in particular the job_scripts
directory and the messages
log file \- may become quite large, depending on the size of the
cluster and the number of jobs. Be sure to allocate enough disk space
and regularly clean off the log files, e.g. via a
.MO cron 8
job.
.PP
As a parameter set at installation time, changing \fBqmaster_spool_dir\fP
in a running system is not supported.
.PP
The default location for the
master spool directory is <xxqs_name_sxx_root>/<cell>/spool/qmaster.
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBsecurity_mode\fP"
The security mode defines the set of security features the installed
cluster is using, as a comma-separated list.
.PP
Possible security mode settings are "none", "afs", "dce", "kerberos",
"csp", "munge" (no additional security, AFS, DCE/GSSAPI, Kerberos/GSSAPI,
X.509 certificate-based security, and
.URL http://munge.googlecode.com/ "MUNGE authentication" ).
Their availability depends on how xxQS_NAMExx was built/installed.
.PP
The "dce" and "kerberos" methods
are nearly equivalent, calling the GSSAPI security modules in the same way,
whether they were built for Kerberos/GSSAPI or DCE/GSSAPI, except
that "dce" runs the program
.I $SGE_ROOT/utilbin/$ARCH/starter_cred
as a wrapper for the shepherd unless
.B NO_SECURITY
is specified in
.B execd_params
in
.M sge_conf 5 .
.PP
Only the CSP and MUNGE methods are currently properly functional and
safe (from the point of view of not exposing credentials generally).
Both provide user authentication, preventing impersonation of other users.
CSP requires certificates to be generated for each user and available
on each host which the user can access; it is appropriate for a
loosely coupled system, e.g. including desktop systems, particularly
as it protects the communication stream as well as providing
authentication.  MUNGE is appropriate in the security domain of a
tightly coupled system, such as a normal cluster, and allows operation
with
.B enforce_user=auto
(see
.M sge_conf 5);
it requires the
.I munged
daemon to be running on each host, with a shared secret and doesn't
encrypt the communication.
.PP
.B NB.
Do not use AFS security without some means of user
authentication, otherwise it is possible to submit jobs as another
user and steal their credential from a job running on the same node.
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBlistener_threads\fP"
The number of listener threads (defaults set by installation).
Increasing this and/or \fBworker_threads\fP (below) to use additional
cores/hardware threads on the master host may improve performance in
demanding cases.
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBworker_threads\fP"
The number of qmaster worker threads (defaults set by installation).
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBscheduler_threads\fP"
The number of qmaster scheduler threads (allowed: 0\-1, default set by
installation: 1, off: 0; see
.M qconf 1
\-kt/\-at option).
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBjvm_threads\fP"
The number of JVM threads (allowed: 0\-1, default set by installation, off: 0).
.\"
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
