'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: host_conf.5,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2011-06-22 15:24:22 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.15 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\" "
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.de MO		\" other man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH HOST_CONF 5 "$Date: 2011-06-22 15:24:22 $" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx File Formats"
.\"
.SH NAME
host_conf \- xxQS_NAMExx execution host configuration file format
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Host_conf
reflects the format of the template file for the execution host configuration.
Via the \fB\-ae\fP and \fB\-me\fP options of the
.M qconf 1
command, you can add execution hosts and modify the configuration of
any execution host in the cluster. Default execution host entries are added
automatically as soon as a
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8
registers to
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8
for the very first time from a certain host. The
.M qconf 1
\fB\-sel\fP switch can be used to display a list of execution hosts
currently configured in your xxQS_NAMExx system. Via the \fB\-se\fP
option you can print the execution host configuration of a
specified host.
.PP
The special hostname "global" can be used to define cluster global 
characteristics.
.PP
Note xxQS_NAMExx allows backslashes (\\) be used to escape newline
characters. The backslash and the newline are replaced with a space
character before any interpretation.
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
The format of a
.I host_conf
file is defined as follows:
.SS "\fBhostname\fP"
The execution host's name in the format for \fIhost_name\fP in
.M sge_types 5 .
.SS "\fBload_scaling\fP"
A comma-separated list of scaling values to be applied to each or part
of the load values being reported by the
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8
on the host.
The load scaling factors are intended to level hardware or operating
system-specific differences between execution hosts.
.sp 1
The syntax of a load factor specification is as follows: First the name of
the load value (as defined in the "host" complex) is given and, separated
by an equal sign, the load scaling value is provided. No blanks are
allowed in the load_scaling value string.
.sp 1
The parameter
.B load_scaling
is not meaningful for the definition of the "global" host.
.SS "\fBcomplex_values\fP"
.B complex_values
defines quotas for resource attributes managed via this 
host. Each complex attribute is followed by an "=" sign and the value 
specification compliant with the complex attribute type (see
.M complex 5 ). 
Quota specifications are separated by commas. 
.sp 1
The quotas are related to the resource consumption of all jobs on a host in 
the case of consumable resources (see
.M complex 5
for details on 
consumable resources), or they are interpreted on a per-job slot basis in the
case of non-consumable resources. Consumable resource attributes are 
commonly used to manage free memory, free disk space or available 
floating software licenses, while non-consumable attributes usually define
distinctive characteristics like type of hardware installed.
.sp 1
For consumable resource attributes, an available resource amount is
determined by subtracting the current resource consumption of all 
running jobs on the host from the quota in the
.B complex_values
list. Jobs 
can only be dispatched to a host if no resource requests exceed any
corresponding resource 
availability obtained by this scheme. The quota definition in the 
.B complex_values
list is automatically replaced by the current load value 
reported for this attribute, if load is monitored for this resource and if the 
reported load value is more stringent than the quota. This effectively 
avoids oversubscription of resources.
.sp 1
.B Note:
Load values replacing the quota specifications may have become 
more stringent because they have been scaled (see
.B load_scaling
above) and/or
load adjusted (see
.M sched_conf 5 ).
The \fI\-F\fP option of
.M qstat 1
and the load display in the
.M qmon 1
queue control dialog (activated by 
.\" fixme: ??
clicking on a queue icon while the "Shift" key is pressed) provide 
detailed information on the actual availability of consumable 
resources and on the origin of the values taken into account currently.
.sp 1
.B Note also:
The resource consumption of running jobs (used for the availability 
calculation) as well as the resource requests of the jobs waiting to be 
dispatched either may be derived from explicit user requests during 
job submission (see the \fI\-l\fP option to
.M qsub 1 )
or from a "default" value 
configured for an attribute by the administrator (see
.M complex 5 ).
The \fI\-r\fP option to
.M qstat 1
can be used for retrieving full detail on the actual 
resource requests of all jobs in the system.
.sp 1
For non-consumable resources xxQS_NAMExx simply compares the 
job's attribute requests with the corresponding specification in 
.B complex_values
taking the relation operator of the complex attribute 
definition into account (see
.M complex 5 ).
If the result of the comparison is 
"true", the host is suitable for the job with respect to the particular 
attribute. For parallel jobs each job slot to be occupied by a parallel task is 
meant to provide the same resource attribute value.
.sp 1
.B Note:
Only numeric complex attributes can be defined as consumable 
resources and hence non-numeric attributes are always handled on a 
per job slot basis.
.sp 1
The default value for this parameter is NONE, i.e. no administrator 
defined resource attribute quotas are associated with the host.
.SS "\fBload_values\fP"
This entry cannot be configured but is only displayed in case of a
.M qconf 1
\fB\-se\fP command. All load values are displayed as reported by the
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8
on the host. The load values are shown in a comma-separated list. Each
load value starts with its name, followed by an equal sign and the reported
value.
.SS "\fBprocessors\fP"
.B Note:
Deprecated, may be removed in future release.
.br
This entry cannot be configured but is only displayed in case of a
.M qconf 1
\fB\-se\fP command. Its value is the number of "processors" which has been
detected by
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8
on the corresponding host.  This may include "hardware threads"
reported by the operating system.
.SS "\fBusage_scaling\fP"
The \fBusage_scaling\fP parameter scales the usage figures, but only
for the purposes of share tree calculations, i.e. a scaling factor of
0 means that use of the relevant host(s) will be ignored for share
tree purposes (e.g. if hosts are dedicated for a specific use).
The format is equivalent to
.B load_scaling
(see above).  However, the only valid attributes to be scaled are
.B cpu
for CPU time consumption,
.B mem
for memory consumption aggregated over the lifetime of jobs and
.B io
for data transferred via any I/O devices. The default NONE means
"no scaling", i.e. all scaling factors are 1.
.SS "\fBuser_lists\fP"
The \fBuser_lists\fP parameter contains a comma-separated list of so called
user access lists as described in
.M access_list 5 .
Each user contained in at least one of the listed access lists has
access to the host. If the \fBuser_lists\fP parameter is set to
NONE (the default), any user has access if not explicitly excluded
via the \fBxuser_lists\fP parameter described below.
If a user is contained both in an access list in \fBxuser_lists\fP
and \fBuser_lists\fP the user is denied access to the host.
.SS "\fBxuser_lists\fP"
The \fBxuser_lists\fP parameter contains a comma-separated list of so called
user access lists as described in
.M access_list 5 .
Each user contained in at least one of the access lists is not
allowed to access the host. If the \fBxuser_lists\fP parameter is set to
NONE (the default), any user has access.
If a user is contained both in \fBxuser_lists\fP
and \fBuser_lists\fP, the user is denied access to the host.
.SS "\fBprojects\fP"
The \fBprojects\fP parameter contains a comma-separated list of projects
that have access to the host. Any projects not in this list are denied
access to the host. If set to NONE (the default), any project
has access if not specifically excluded via the \fBxprojects\fP
parameter described below. If a project is in both \fBprojects\fP and
\fBxprojects\fP, the project is denied access to the host.
.SS "\fBxprojects\fP"
The \fBxprojects\fP parameter contains a comma-separated list of projects
that are denied access to the host. If set to NONE (the default), no
projects are denied access other than those denied access based on the
\fBprojects\fP parameter described above.  If a project is in both
\fBprojects\fP and \fBxprojects\fP, the project is denied
access to the host.
.\"
.SS "\fBreport_variables\fP"
The \fBreport_variables\fP parameter contains a comma-separated list of
variables that should be written to the reporting file.
The variables listed here will be written to the reporting file when a load report arrives from an execution host.
.sp 1
Default settings can be done in the global host. Host-specific settings for
report_variables will override settings from the global host.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_types 1 ,
.M qconf 1 ,
.MO uptime 1 ,
.M access_list 5 ,
.M complex 5 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8 .
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
