'\"
.\" Copyright (C), 2012  Dave Love, University of Liverpool
.\" You may distribute this file under the terms of the GNU Free
.\" Documentation License.
.de M		\" SGE man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.de MO		\" other man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.de MO		\" other man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH sge_schedule 5 2012-07-25
.SH NAME
sge_schedule \- format of the xxQS_NAMExx schedule file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I schedule
file is written by the qmaster when
.B MONITOR=1
is set in the
.B params
item of
.M sched_conf 5 .
.PP
Note that the file tends to grow rapidly, and should be
truncated/rotated, e.g. with
.MO logrotate 1 .
Also it should probably be placed on local disk, not an NFS-mounted
filesystem, for instance, because of the large number of small writes
it typically gets \- e.g. make a symbolic link into the qmaster spool
area (assuming that is local).
.PP
See
.M qsched 1
for a tool to process the data and produce information on reservations.
.SH FORMAT
A line containing
.br
.B ::::::::
.br
indicates the start of a scheduling interval.  It is followed by lines
showing the resource usage considered for the interval.  They contain
the following fields, delimited by
.RB ' : '.
.TP
.B job id
The numeric job id;
.TP
.B task id
The task id (1 for serial jobs);
.TP
.B reason
The for listing the utilization.  One of the following, depending on
the job's state:
.RS
.TP
.B RUNNING
Running before the interval;
.TP
.B SUSPENDED
Suspended before the interval;
.TP
.B MIGRATING
To be preempted/migrated (currently unused);
.TP
.B STARTING
To be started;
.TP
.B RESERVING
Having resources reserved through advance or normal resource
reservation.
.RE
.TP
.B start time
Start of resource utilization, in seconds after the epoch;
.TP
.B end time
End of resource utilization, as above;
.TP
.B level
The level at which resources are considered.  One of:
.RS
.TP
.B Q
Queue;
.TP
.B H
Host;
.TP
.B G
Global;
.TP
.B P
Parallel environment.
.RE
.TP
.B object name
Name of the relevant queue, host, parallel environment, or "global";
.TP
.B resource name
Complex name in use or being reserved;
.TP
.B utilization
Amount of the named complex.
.SH FILES
.I $SGE_ROOT/$SGE_$CELL/common/schedule
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M sched_conf 5 ,
.M qsched 1 .
