'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\" $RCSfile: sge_priority.5,v $     Last Update: $Date: 2007-01-05 19:56:10 $     Revision: $Revision: 1.10 $
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\" "
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH SGE_PRIORITY 5 "2007-01-05" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx File Formats"
.\"
.SH NAME
sge_priority \- xxQS_NAMExx job priorities
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
xxQS_NAMExx provides a means for controlling 
job dispatch and run-time priorities. The dispatch priority indicates
the relative importance of pending jobs and 
determines the order in which xxQS_NAMExx initially considers
dispatching jobs to queue instances, if the relevant resources are
available.  (The actual running order may be influenced may be
influenced by other factors, such as reservations.)  The run-time
priority determines the CPU allocation
that the operating system assigns to jobs.
.\"
.\"
.SS "JOBS DISPATCH PRIORITY"
.\"
.\"
A job's dispatch priority (display in the "reduced" output format of
.M qstat 1 ),
is affected by a number of factors:
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the identity of the submitting user;
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the project under which the job is submitted (or alternatively,
the default project of the submitting user);
.IP "\(bu" 3n
any resources requested by the job;
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the job's submit time;
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the job's initiation deadline time (if specified);
.IP "\(bu" 3n
the
.B \-p
priority specified for the job (also known as the POSIX
priority "\fIpprio\fP").
.\"
.PP
The effect of each of these is governed by the overall policy setup,
which is split into three top-level contributions.  Each of these is
configured through the
.M sched_conf 5 
parameters \fBweight_priority\fP, \fBweight_ticket\fP and \fBweight_urgency\fP.
These three parameters control to what degree POSIX priority, ticket policy, 
and urgency policy are in effect. To facilitate interpretation, the raw 
priorities ("\fItckts\fP"/"\fIurg\fP"/"\fIppri\fP") are normalized ("\fIntckts\fP"/"\fInurg\fP"/"\fInpprior\fP")
before they are used to calculate job priorities ("\fIprio\fP").
Normalization maps each raw urgency/ticket/priority  value into a range
between 0 and 1.
.PP
.nf
   \fInpprior\fP = normalized(\fIppri\fP)
   \fInurg\fP    = normalized(\fIurg\fP)
   \fIntckts\fP  = normalized(\fItckts\fP)

   \fIprio\fP    = \fIweight_priority\fP * \fInpprio\fP +
             \fIweight_urgency\fP  * \fInurg\fP +
             \fIweight_ticket\fP   * \fIntckts\fP
.fi
.PP
The higher a job's priority value, the earlier it gets dispatched.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\" urgency policy
The urgency policy defines an urgency value for each job. The 
urgency value 
.br
   \fIurg\fP =  \fIrrcontr\fP + \fIwtcontr\fP + \fIdlcontr\fP
.br
consists of the resource requirement contribution (\fIrrcontr\fP), the waiting
time contribution (\fIwtcontr\fP) and the deadline contribution (\fIdlcontr\fP).
.PP
The resource requirement contribution adds up all resource
requirements of a job into a single numeric value.
.br
   \fIrrcontr\fP = Sum over all(\fIhrr\fP)
.br
with an \fIhrr\fP for each hard resource request.
Depending on the resource type, two different methods are used to 
determine the value to be used for \fIhrr\fP here. For numeric type resource
requests, the \fIhrr\fP represents how much of a resource a job requests (on a
per-slot basis for PE jobs) and how "important" this resource is
considered in comparison to other resources. This is expressed by the
formula:
.br
   \fIhrr\fP = \fIrurg\fP * \fIassumed_slot_allocation\fP * \fIrequest\fP
.br
where the resource's urgency value (\fIrurg\fP) is as specified
under \fBurgency\fP in 
.M complex 5 , 
the job's \fIassumed_slot_allocation\fP represents the number of slots
supposedly assigned to the job, and the per-slot request is that which was
specified using the
.B \-l
.M qsub 1
option. For string-type requests the formula is simply
.br
   \fIhrr\fP = \fIrurg\fP
.br
and directly assigns the resource urgency value
as specified under \fBurgency\fP in 
.M complex 5 . 
.PP
The waiting time contribution represents a weighted waiting time of the
jobs
.br
   \Fiwtcontr\fP = \fIwaiting_time\fP * \fIweight_waiting_time\fP
.br
with the waiting time in seconds and the \fIweight_waiting_time\fP value
as specified in 
.M sched_conf 5 .
.PP
The deadline contribution has an increasing effect as jobs approach their
deadline initiation time (see the
.B \-dl
option in
.M qsub 1 ).
It is defined as the quotient of the \fBweight_deadline\fP 
value from
.M sched_conf 5
and the (steadily decreasing) free time in seconds until deadline
initiation time
.br
   \Fidlcontr\fP = \fIweight_deadline\fP / \fIfree_time\fP
.br
or is set to 0 for non-deadline jobs.  After the deadline passes,
the value is static and equal to
.BR weight_deadline .
The
.M qstat 1
.B \-urg
option displays urgency information for jobs.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\" ticket policy
The ticket policy unites functional, override and share tree 
policies in the ticket value (\fItckts\fP), defined as the sum of the
specific ticket values (\fIftckt\fP/\fIotckt\fP/\fIstckt\fP) for each sub-policy
(functional, override, share):
.br
    \Fitckts\fP = \fIftckt\fP + \fIotckt\fP + \fIstckt\fP
.PP
The ticket policies provide a broad range of means for influencing
both job dispatch and runtime priorities on a per job, per user, per
project, and per department basis.
The
.M qstat 1
.B \-ext
option displays ticket information for jobs.
.\" See the xxQS_NAMExx
.\" Installation and Administration Guide for details.
.\"
.\"
.SS "JOB RUN-TIME PRIORITY"
The run-time priority can be dynamically adjusted 
in order to meet the goals set with the ticket policy when execution
hosts are over-subscribed. Dynamic run-time
priority adjustment can be turned on globally using
.B reprioritize
in
.M sge_conf 5
and \fBreprioritize_interval\fP in
.M sched_conf 5 .
If no dynamic run-time priority adjustment is done 
at a host level, the \fBpriority\fP specification in 
.M queue_conf 5
is in effect.
.PP
Note that urgency and POSIX priorities do \fBnot\fP affect runtime
priority.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M complex 5 ,
.M qstat 1 ,
.M qsub 1 ,
.M sched_conf 5 ,
.M sge_conf 5
.\" .I xxQS_NAMExx Installation and Administration Guide
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
