'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (C) 2011, 2012, 2013  Dave Love, University of Liverpool
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\"
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\" "
.\"
.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.de MO		\" external man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH xxQS_NAME_Sxx_PE 5 2012-09-11 "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx File Formats"
.\"
.SH NAME
xxqs_name_sxx_pe \- xxQS_NAMExx parallel environment configuration file format
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Parallel environments are parallel programming and runtime environments
supporting the execution of shared memory or distributed memory
parallelized applications. Parallel environments usually require some
kind of setup to be operational before starting parallel applications.
Examples of common parallel environments are OpenMP on shared memory
multiprocessor systems, and Message Passing Interface (MPI) on shared
memory or distributed systems.
.PP
.I xxqs_name_sxx_pe
allows for the definition of interfaces to arbitrary parallel environments.
Once a parallel environment is defined or modified with the \fB\-ap\fP or
\fB\-mp\fP options to
.M qconf 1
and linked with one or more queues via \fIpe_list\fP in 
.M queue_conf 5
the environment can be requested for a job via the \fB\-pe\fP switch
to
.M qsub 1
together with a request for a numeric range of parallel processes
to be allocated by the job. Additional \fB\-l\fP options may be used
to specify more detailed job requirements.
.PP
Note, xxQS_NAMExx allows backslashes (\\) be used to escape newline
characters. The backslash and the newline are replaced with a
space character before any interpretation.
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
The format of a
.I xxqs_name_sxx_pe
file is defined as follows:
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBpe_name\fP"
The name of the parallel environment in the format for \fIpe_name\fP in
.M xxqs_name_sxx_types 1 .
To be used in the
.M qsub 1
\fB\-pe\fP switch.
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBslots\fP"
The total number of slots (normally one per parallel process or thread) allowed
to be filled concurrently under the parallel environment.
Type is integer, valid values are 0 to 9999999.
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBuser_lists\fP"
.SS "\fBxuser_lists\fP" 
A comma-separated list of user access list names (see
.M access_list 5 ).
.PP
Each user contained in at least one of the
.B user_lists
access lists has access to the parallel environment. If the
\fBuser_lists\fP parameter is set to NONE (the default) any user has
access if not explicitly excluded via the \fBxuser_lists\fP parameter.
.PP
Each user contained in at least one of the
.B xuser_lists
access lists is not allowed to access the parallel environment. If the
\fBxuser_lists\fP parameter is set to NONE (the default) any user has
access.
.PP
If a user is contained both in an access list in \fBxuser_lists\fP and
\fBuser_lists\fP the user is denied access to the parallel
environment.
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBstart_proc_args\fP"
.SS "\fBstop_proc_args\fP"
The command line respectively of a startup or shutdown procedure (an
executable command, plus possible arguments) for the parallel environment, or
"none" for no procedure (typically for tightly integrated PEs).
The command line is started directly, not in a shell.
An optional prefix "\fIuser\fP\fB@\fP" specifies the username under which the
procedure is to be started.  In that case see the SECURITY section below
concerning security issues running as a privileged user.
.PP
The startup procedure is invoked by
.M xxqs_name_sxx_shepherd 8
on the master node of the job
prior to executing the job script. Its purpose is to setup the
parallel environment according to its needs.
The shutdown procedure is invoked by
.M xxqs_name_sxx_shepherd 8
after the job script has finished. Its purpose is to stop the
parallel environment and to remove it from all participating
systems.
The standard output of the
procedure is redirected to the file \fIREQUEST\fP.po\fIJID\fP in the
job's working 
directory (see
.M qsub 1 ),
with \fIREQUEST\fP being the name of the job as 
displayed by
.M qstat 1 ,
and \fIJID\fP being the job's identification number.
Likewise,
the standard error output is redirected to \fIREQUEST\fP.pe\fIJID\fP.
.\" Fixme: check & xref with submit
If the
.B \-e
or
.B \-o
options are given on job submission, the PE error and standard output
is merged into the paths specified.
.PP
The following special
variables, expanded at runtime, can be used (besides any other
strings which have to be interpreted by the start and stop procedures)
to constitute a command line:
.IP "\fI$pe_hostfile\fP"
The pathname of a file containing
a detailed description of the layout of the parallel environment to be
setup by the start-up procedure. Each line of the file refers to a host
on which parallel processes are to be run. The first entry of each line
denotes the hostname, the second entry the number of parallel processes
to be run on the host, the third entry the name of the queue.  The
entries are separated by spaces.  If
.B \-binding pe
is specified on job submission, the fourth column is the core binding
specification as colon-separated socket-core pairs, like "0,0:0,1",
meaning the first core on the first socket and the second
core on the first socket can be used for binding.  Otherwise it will
be "UNDEFINED".  With the obsolete queue
.B processors
specification the fourth entry could be a multi-processor
configuration (or "<NULL>").
.IP "\fI$host\fP"
The name of the host on which the startup or stop procedures are run.
.IP "\fI$ja_task_id\fP"
The array job task index (0 if not an array job).
.IP "\fI$job_owner\fP"
The user name of the job owner.
.IP "\fI$job_id\fP"
xxQS_NAMExx's unique job identification number.
.IP "\fI$job_name\fP"
The name of the job.
.IP "\fI$pe\fP"
The name of the parallel environment in use.
.IP "\fI$pe_slots\fP"
Number of slots granted for the job.
.IP "\fI$processors\fP"
The \fBprocessors\fP string as contained in the queue configuration
(see
.M queue_conf 5 )
of the master queue (the queue in which the startup and stop procedures
are run).
.IP "\fI$queue\fP"
The cluster queue of the master queue instance.
.IP \fI$sge_cell\fP
The SGE_CELL environment variable (useful for locating files).
.IP \fI$sge_root\fP
The SGE_ROOT environment variable (useful for locating files).
.IP \fI$stdin_path\fP
The standard input path.
.IP \fI$stderr_path\fP
The standard error path.
.IP \fI$stdout_path\fP
The standard output path.
.\" fixme: doc these
.IP \fI$merge_stderr\fP
.IP \fI$fs_stdin_host\fP
.IP \fI$fs_stdin_path\fP
.IP \fI$fs_stdin_tmp_path\fP
.IP \fI$fs_stdin_file_staging\fP
.IP \fI$fs_stdout_host\fP
.IP \fI$fs_stdout_path\fP
.IP \fI$fs_stdout_tmp_path\fP
.IP \fI$fs_stdout_file_staging\fP
.IP \fI$fs_stderr_host\fP
.IP \fI$fs_stderr_path\fP
.IP \fI$fs_stderr_tmp_path\fP
.IP \fI$fs_stderr_file_staging\fP
.PP
The start and stop commands are run with the same environment setting
as that of the job to be started afterwards (see
.M qsub 1 ).
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBallocation_rule\fP"
The allocation rule is interpreted by the scheduler thread
and helps the scheduler to decide how to distribute parallel
processes among the available machines. If, for instance,
a parallel environment is built for shared memory applications
only, all parallel processes have to be assigned to a single
machine, no matter how many suitable machines are available.
If, however, the parallel environment follows the
distributed memory paradigm, an even distribution of processes
among machines may be favorable, as may packing processes onto the
minimum number of machines.
.PP
The current version of the scheduler only understands the
following allocation rules:
.IP "\fIint\fP"
An integer, fixing the number of processes per
host. If it is 1, all processes have to reside
on different hosts. If the special name
.B $pe_slots
is used, the full range of processes as specified with the
.M qsub 1
\fB\-pe\fP switch has to be allocated on a single host
(no matter what value belonging to the range is finally
chosen for the job to be allocated).
.IP "\fB$fill_up\fP"
Starting from the best suitable host/queue, all available slots are 
allocated. Further hosts and queues are "filled up" as long as a job still 
requires slots for parallel tasks.
.IP "\fB$round_robin\fP"
From all suitable hosts, a single slot is allocated until all tasks 
requested by the parallel job are dispatched. If more tasks are requested 
than suitable hosts are found, allocation starts again from the first host. 
The allocation scheme walks through suitable hosts in a most-suitable-first 
order.
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBcontrol_slaves\fP"
This parameter can be set to TRUE or FALSE (the default). It indicates 
whether xxQS_NAMExx is the creator of the slave tasks of a parallel application
via 
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8
and
.M xxqs_name_sxx_shepherd 8
and thus has full control over all processes in a parallel
application  ("tight integration").  This enables:
.IP \(bu
resource limits are enforced for all tasks, even on slave hosts;
.IP \(bu
resource consumption is properly accounted on all hosts;
.IP \(bu
proper control of tasks, with no need to write a customized terminate
method to ensure that whole job is finished on
.I qdel
and that tasks are properly reaped in the case of abnormal job
termination;
.IP \(bu
all tasks are started with the appropriate nice value which was
configured as
.B priority
in the queue configuration;
.IP \(bu
propagation of the job environment to slave hosts, e.g. so that they
write into the appropriate per-job temporary directory specified by TMPDIR,
which is created on each host and properly cleaned up.
.PP
To gain control over the
slave tasks of a parallel application, a sophisticated PE interface is
required, which works closely together with xxQS_NAMExx facilities,
typically interpreting the xxQS_NAMExx hostfile and starting remote
tasks with
.M qrsh 1
and its
.B \-inherit
option.
See, for instance, the
.B $SGE_ROOT/mpi
directory and the
.URL http://arc.liv.ac.uk/SGE/howto/#Tight%20Integration%20of%20Parallel%20Libraries "howto pages" .
.sp 1
Please set the \fBcontrol_slaves\fP parameter to false for all other PE
interfaces.
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBjob_is_first_task\fP"
.\" fixme: https://arc.liv.ac.uk/trac/SGE/ticket/816
The
.B job_is_first_task
parameter can be set to TRUE or FALSE. A value of 
TRUE indicates that the xxQS_NAMExx job script already contains one of 
the tasks of the parallel application
(and the number of slots reserved for the job is the number of slots
requested with the \-pe switch).
FALSE indicates that the
job script (and its child processes) is not part of the parallel
program, just being used to kick off the tasks that do the work;
then the number of slots reserved for the job in the master queue is
increased by 1, as indicated by
.IR qstat / qhost .
.PP
This should be TRUE for the common modern MPI implementations with
tight integration.  Consider if the allocation rule is
.BR $fill_up ,
and a job is allocated only a single slot on the master host; then one
of the MPI processes actually runs in that slot, and should be
accounted as such, so the job is the first task.
.PP
If wallclock accounting is used
.RB ( execd_params
.B ACCT_RESERVED_USAGE
 and/or
.B SHARETREE_RESERVED_USAGE
Is
.BR TRUE )
and 
.B control_slaves
is set to FALSE, the
.B job_is_first_task
parameter influences the accounting for the job:
A value of TRUE means that accounting for CPU and requested memory
gets multiplied by the number of slots requested with the \-pe switch.
FALSE means the accounting information gets multiplied by number of
slots + 1.  Otherwise, the only significant effect of the parameter is
on the display of the job.
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBurgency_slots\fP"
For pending jobs with a slot range PE request with different minimum
and maximum, the number of slots they will actually use
is not determined. This setting specifies the method to be used by
xxQS_NAMExx to assess the number of slots such jobs might finally
get.
.PP
The assumed slot allocation has a meaning when determining the 
resource-request-based priority contribution for numeric resources
as described in
.M xxqs_name_sxx_priority 5
and is displayed when
.M qstat 1
is run without \fB\-g t\fP option.
.PP
The following methods are supported:
.IP "\fIint\fP"
The specified integer number is directly used as prospective slot amount.
.IP "\fBmin\fP"
The slot range minimum is used as prospective slot amount. If no
lower bound is specified with the range, 1 is assumed.
.IP "\fBmax\fP"
The slot range maximum is used as prospective slot amount.
If no upper bound is specified with the range, the absolute maximum
possible due to the PE's \fBslots\fP setting is assumed.
.IP "\fBavg\fP"
The average of all numbers occurring within the job's PE range 
request is assumed.
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fBaccounting_summary\fP"
This parameter is only checked if
.B control_slaves
(see above) is set to TRUE 
and thus xxQS_NAMExx is the creator of the slave tasks of a parallel 
application via
.M xxqs_name_sxx_execd 8
and
.M xxqs_name_sxx_shepherd 8 .
In this case, accounting information is available for every single
slave task started by xxQS_NAMExx.
.PP
The
.B accounting_summary
parameter can be set to TRUE or FALSE. A value of 
TRUE indicates that only a single accounting record is written to the
.M accounting 5
file, containing the accounting summary of the whole job, including all slave tasks,
while a value of FALSE indicates an individual
.M accounting 5
record is written for every slave task, as well as for the master task.
.PP
.B Note:
When running tightly integrated jobs with \fISHARETREE_RESERVED_USAGE\fP set,
and \fIaccounting_summary\fP enabled in the parallel environment,
reserved usage will only be reported by the master task of the parallel job.
No per-parallel task usage records will be sent from execd to qmaster, which
can significantly reduce load on the qmaster when running large,
tightly integrated parallel jobs.  However, this removes the only
post-hoc information about which hosts a job used.
.SS "\fBqsort_args \fIlibrary qsort-function \fR[\fParg1 \fR...]\fP"
Specifies a method for specifying the queues/hosts and order that
should be used to schedule a parallel job.  For details, and the API,
consult the header file
.IR $SGE_ROOT/include/sge_pqs_api.h .
.I library
is the path to the qsort dynamic library,
.I qsort-function
is the name of the qsort function implemented by the library, and the
.IR arg s
are arguments passed to
.IR qsort .
Substitutions from the hard requested resource list for the job
are made for any strings of the form
.RI $ resource ,
where
.I resource
is the full name of the resource as defined in the
.M complex 5
list.  If
.I resource
is not requested in the job, a null string is substituted.
.\"
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
\fBNote\fP that the functionality of the start and stop
procedures remains the full responsibility
of the administrator configuring the parallel environment.
xxQS_NAMExx will invoke these procedures and evaluate their
exit status.  A non-zero exit status will put the queue into an error
state.  If the start procedure has a non-zero exit status, the job
will be re-queued.
.\"
.SH SECURITY
If
.BR start_proc_args ,
or
.B stop_proc_args
is specified with a
.IB user @
prefix, the same considerations apply as for the prolog and epilog, as
described in the SECURITY section of
.M xxqs_name_sxx_conf 5 .
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx__types 1 ,
.M qconf 1 ,
.M qdel 1 ,
.M qmod 1 ,
.M qrsh 1 ,
.M qsub 1 ,
.M access_list 5 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_conf 5 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_qmaster 8 ,
.M xxqs_name_sxx_shepherd 8 .
.\"
.SH FILES
.I $SGE_ROOT/include/sge_pqs_api.h
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
