.\" Copyright (C), 2011  Dave Love
.\" You may distribute this file under the terms of the GNU Free
.\" Documentation License.
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH qsched 1 2011-08-25 "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx User Commands"
.SH NAME
qsched, process-scheduler-log \- show scheduling information on resource reservation
.SH SYNTAX
.B qsched
.RB [ \-u\ \fIuser\fP | \-\-user=\fIuser\fP ]
.RB [ \-a | \-\-all ]
.RB [ \-j\ \fIjid_list\fP | \-\-jid=\fIjid_list\fP ]
.RB [ \-f | \-\-full ]
.RB [ \-s " " j | \-\-sort=j ] 
.RB [ \-q | \-\-queues ] 
.RB [ \-d | \-\-debug ]
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.br
.B process-scheduler-log
.RB [ \-v ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B qsched
reports resources being reserved for jobs on the basis of the
.I schedule
file, which is processed by
.BR process-scheduler-log ,
which runs continuously.  
Generating
.I schedule
requires setting
.B MONITOR=1
in the
.B params
parameter of the scheduler (see
.M sched_conf 5 ).
.PP
.BR process-scheduler-log
should simply be started in the background as it does not currently
daemonize itself.  Alternatively, it could be run under
.M daemonize 1 ,
or adapted to run as a global load sensor (see
.M sge_execd 8 ).
It needs
.I SGE_ROOT
and
.I SGE_CELL
set in the environment when it starts.
.PP
.B qsched
and
.B process-scheduler-log
both potentially need editing to configure for the local installation,
particularly the definition of
.B $trim_string
in
.BR qsched .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a\  |\  \-\-all
View jobs belonging to all users (synonym for
.BI \-u\ user )
View jobs belonging to
.IR user .
.TP
.BR \-d\  |\  \-\-debug
Print debugging information.
.TP
.BR \-f\  |\  \-\-full
Print all available data for each job.
.TP
.BR \-h\  |\  \-\-help
Print help information.
.TP
.BI \-j\  jid_list\  \fR|\ \fP\-\-jid= jid_list
.I jid_list
is a comma-separated list of job ids to view.
.TP
.BR \-q\ |\ \-\-queues
Sort output by queue.
.TP
.BR "\-s j"\  |\ \-\-sort=j
Sort output by job id.
.TP
.BI \-u\ user\ \fR|\fP\ \-\-user= user
View jobs belonging to
.IR user .
.TP
.B \-v
Print information on standard output.
.BR "-u *" ).
.PP
The default is to sort by start time.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/run/sgeprocschedlog.pid
Contains the process id of
.IR process-scheduler-log .
.TP
.I ${SGE_ROOT}/${SGE_CELL}/common/act_qmaster
Consulted to check that the qmaster is active.
.TP
.I ${SGE_ROOT}/${SGE_CELL}/common/schedule
Normal schedule monitoring file.
.TP
.I ${SGE_ROOT}/${SGE_CELL}/common/schedule.last
Contents of last complete scheduling interval seen in
.I schedule
file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M sched_conf 5 ,
.M daemonize 1
.SH AUTHOR
Mark Dixon <m.c.dixon@leeds.ac.uk>
.br
Man page by Dave Love <d.love@liverpool.ac.uk>
