.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.\"
.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.\"
.TH QSTATUS 1 "30 NOVEMBER 2010" "qstatus 1.6" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
qstatus \- xxQS_NAMExx qstatus script
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qstatus
.RB [ "\-acghjlmnot" ]
.RB [ "\-s \fISORT_FIELD_LIST" ]
.RB [ "\fIUSER" ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents \fBqstatus\fP, a script to reformat the
output of the xxQS_NAMExx command
.M qstat 1 .
.PP
The reformatted list is by default limited to the actual user account. This can be changed to request a job
list of any user by supplying the username \fIUSER\fR as the last argument, or requesting an output for
all users by the \fB\-a\fR switch (see below).
.SS Options
.TP
.B \-a
Display the jobs of all users. May not be used when there is
a dedicated user specified. This also implies the output of
the owner of the jobs.
.TP
.B \-c
Calculate a statistic of the listed jobs.
.TP
.B \-g
Group output by owner. Only applicable if the owner is listed,
either by the \fB\-o\fR switch or implied by \fB\-a\fR. This is a short form
of \[oq]\fB\-s\fR \fBowner\fR,\fBrunning\fR\[cq]. Can't be used together with the \fB\-s\fR option.
.TP
.B \-h
Print help.
.TP
.B \-j
Include jobs which are suspended.
.TP
.B \-l
Suppress the output of the list of jobs. Maybe useful in case
you are only interested in the statistic with the \fB\-c\fR switch.
.TP
.B \-m
Display the machine instead of the name of the queue the job is
running in under the column \[oq]running in\[cq]. Only meaningful for
SGE 6.0 or above.
.TP
.B \-n
Suppress the listing of the individual owner, mostly useful when
all jobs are listed. Takes precedence over any other implied options.
If used together with \fB\-o\fR, only the later one is relevant.
.TP
.B \-o
List the owner of the individual job. Takes precedence over any
other implied option. If used together with \fB\-n\fR, only the later
one is relevant.
.TP
.B \-r
Display times relative to submit- or start-times, as appropriate.
.TP
.B \-s \fISORT_FIELD_LIST\fR
Sort the output according to the given columns. The \fISORT_FIELD_LIST\fR has
the format \fISORT_FIELD_LIST\fR=\fISORT_FIELD\fR[,\fISORT_FIELD\fR]* where
\fISORT_FIELD\fR can be one of \fBjob\fR, \fBname\fR, \fBnone\fR,
\fBowner\fR, \fBrunning\fR, \fBslots\fR, \fBtime\fR.
.RS
.PP
The option \fBnone\fR will supersede any other column names and
set the complete sort order to none.
.PP
The column \fBowner\fR can only be used if the owner of the
job is displayed at all. Otherwise it will be ignored.
.PP
The sort by \fBrunning\fR will only be used for the running
jobs, not for the waiting ones.
.PP
This will overwrite the default sort order, which is:
.sp 1
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 15
running jobs:
\fBrunning\fR
.TP
waiting jobs:
\fBnone\fR
.PD
.RE
.sp 1
If the option \fB\-g\fR is specified, the default sort order is changed to:
.sp 1
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 15
running jobs:
\fBowner\fR,\fBrunning\fR
.TP
waiting jobs:
\fBowner\fR
.PD
.sp 1
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B \-t
Append task ID to the jobname for array tasks. This option has no meaning for
non-array jobs.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Reuti.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <reuti@staff.uni-marburg.de>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2010 Philipps-University of Marburg.
.br
This is free software.  You may redistribute copies of it under the terms of the
.URL http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html "GNU General Public License" .
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M qstat 1
of xxQS_NAMExx.
.SH BUGS
Does not support the PBS or Torque resource manager.
The Awk script used probably isn't portable and may require GNU Awk
version 3 or higher.
