.\" Copyright (C), 2011  Dave Love
.\" You may distribute this file under the terms of the GNU Free
.\" Documentation License.
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH sge\-node\-selection 1 2011-01-01 
.SH NAME
busy\-nodes, idle\-nodes, dead\-nodes, nodes\-in\-job, qselect\-node\-list \- List xxQS_NAMExx node names by various criteria
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B busy\-nodes
.RB [ \-w ]
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.br
.B idle\-nodes
.RB [ \-w ]
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.br
.B dead\-nodes
.RB [ \-w ]
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.br
.B nodes\-in\-job
.RB [ \-w ]
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.I jobid
.br
.B qselect\-node\-list
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.I qselect_arg
\&...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR busy\-nodes ,
.BR idle\-nodes ,
and
.BR dead\-nodes
respectively list xxQS_NAMExx nodes which are:  busy with one or more
jobs, idle (without a job running), and "dead" (their xxQS_NAMExx exec
daemon is not responding).
.B nodes-in-job
list nodes which are running the given
.I jobid
(presumably a parallel one).
.B qselect\-node\-list
runs
.M qselect 1
with the given arguments.  The node list is printed one node per line
unless the
.B \-w
option is used.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h , \-\-help
Print usage information.
.TP
.B \-w
Print the output in a form compatible with the
.B \-w
argument of
.M pdsh 1 .
.SH EXAMPLES
The following would reboot all idle nodes.  (It is actually preferable
to submit a job to reboot nodes, to avoid a race with job further
submission.)
.RS
.B "pdsh \-w `idle\-nodes \-w` reboot"
.RE
.PP
The following would run
.M qhost 1 ,
selecting only nodes in job number "123".
.RS
.B "qhost `nodes\-in\-job 123`"
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M qhost 1 ,
.M qselect 1 ,
.M pdsh 1 .
.SH AUTHOR
Dave Love <d.love@liverpool.ac.uk>
