'\"
.\" Copyright (C), 2011  Dave Love, University of Liverpool
.\" You may distribute this file under the terms of the GNU Free
.\" Documentation License.
.de M		\" SGE man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.de MO		\" other man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH sge_share_mon 1 2011-12-24
.SH NAME
sge_share_mon \- print xxQS_NAMExx live share tree
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sge_share_mon
.RB [ \-c
.IR count ]
.RB [ \-d
.IR delimiter ]
.RB [ \-f
.IR field , field ...]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-i
.IR interval ]
.RB [ \-l
.IR delimiter ]
.RB [ \-m
.IR output_mode ]
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR output_file ]
.RB [ \-r
.IR delimiter ]
.RB [ \-s
.IR string_format ]
.RB [ \-t ]
.RB [ \-u ]
.RB [ \-x ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sge_share_mon
prints the live state of the xxQS_NAMExx share tree (as opposed to
.M qmon 1 's
static graphical view).  It does so for a given number (default infinite) of
intervals; use
.B \-c 1
for a snapshot.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c\  count
Print
.I count
collections (default infinite).
.TP
.BI \-d\  delimiter
Delimit output columns with string
.I delimiter
(default a tab).
.TP
.BI \-f\  field\fR,...
Print the given
.IR field s.
The available fields in the default order are
.BR curr_time ,
.BR usage_time ,
.BR node_name ,
.BR user_name ,
.BR project_name ,
.BR shares ,
.BR job_count ,
.BR level% ,
.BR total% ,
.BR long_target_share ,
.BR short_target_share ,
.BR actual_share ,
.BR usage ,
.BR cpu ,
.BR mem ,
.BR io ,
.BR ltcpu ,
.BR ltmem ,
.BR ltio .
.TP
.B \-h
Print a header listing field names.
.TP
.BI \-i\  interval
Collect over
.I interval
seconds (default 15)
.TP
.BI \-l\  delimiter
Delimit nodes output with string
.I delimiter
(default a carriage return).
.TP
.BI \-m\  output_mode
Open
.I output_file
in
.MO fopen 3
mode
.I output_mode
(default 
.BR w ).
The meaningful alternative is
.B a
to append to the file.
.TP
.B \-n
Print in the form
.IR name = value
.TP
.BI \-o\  output_file
Print to file
.IR output_file
(default standard output).
.TP
.BI \-r\  delimiter
Delimit collection records with string
.I delimiter
(default a carriage return).
.TP
.BI \-s\  string_format
.MO printf 3 -style
format for strings (default
.BR %s )
.TP
.B \-t
Show times formatted per
.MO ctime 3 .
(Default is seconds since the epoch.)
.TP
.B \-u
Print decayed usage (since timestamp) in nodes.
.TP
.B \-x
Don't print non-leaf nodes.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.MO fopen 3 ,
.MO printf 3 ,
.M qmon 1 ,
.M share_tree 5 .
