'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\"
.\"
.\" Some handy macro definitions [from Tom Christensen's man(1) manual page].
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\" "
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH xxQS_NAME_Sxx_INTRO 1 "2011-05-08" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx User Commands"
.\"
.SH NAME
sge_intro \- xxQS_NAMExx, a facility for executing jobs on remote machines
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"
xxQS_NAMExx is a facility for executing Unix-like batch jobs (shell
scripts or binaries) on a pool of cooperating CPUs. Jobs are queued
and executed remotely according to defined policies.  The CPUs may be
in desktop systems, with jobs run on them at times when they would
otherwise be idle or only lightly loaded. The work load may be
distributed according to the (generalized) load situation of each
machine and the resource requirements of the jobs.
.PP
.\"
User level checkpointing programs are supported and a transparent
checkpointing mechanism is provided (see
.M xxqs_name_sxx_ckpt 1 ).
Checkpointing jobs migrate from system to system without user
intervention on load demand. In addition to simple batch jobs, interactive
jobs and parallel jobs can also be submitted to xxQS_NAMExx.
.PP
.\"
.SH "USER INTERFACE"
The xxQS_NAMExx
user interface consists of several programs which are described
separately.
.\"
.TP
.M qacct 1
.I qacct
extracts arbitrary accounting information from the cluster logfile.
.\"
.TP
.M qalter 1
.I qalter
changes the characteristics of already submitted jobs.
.\"
.TP
.M qconf 1
.I qconf
provides the user interface for configuring, modifying, deleting and
querying queues and the cluster configuration.
.\"
.TP
.M qdel 1
.I qdel
provides the means for a user/operator/manager to cancel jobs.
.\"
.TP
.M qevent 1
.I qevent
provides a means of watching xxQS_NAMExx events and acting on jobs finishing.
.\"
.TP
.M qhold 1
.I qhold
holds back submitted jobs from execution.
.\"
.TP
.M qhost 1
.I qhost
displays status information about xxQS_NAMExx execution hosts.
.\"
.TP
.M qlogin 1
.I qlogin
initiates a telnet or similar login session with automatic selection of a
suitable host.
.\"
.TP
.M qmake 1
.I qmake
is a replacement for the standard Unix
.I make
facility. It extends make with
an ability to distribute independent make steps across a cluster of
suitable machines.
.TP
.M qmod 1
.I qmod
allows the owner(s) of a queue to suspend and enable queues, e.g. all queues
associated with his machine (all currently active processes in this queue 
are also signaled) or to suspend and enable jobs executing in the queues.
.\"
.TP
.M qmon 1
.I qmon
provides a Motif command interface to all xxQS_NAMExx
functions. The status of all, or a private selection of, the configured
queues is displayed on-line by changing colors at corresponding queue
icons.
.\"
.TP
.M qping 1
.I qping
can be used to check the status of xxQS_NAMExx daemons.
.\"
.TP
.M qquota 1
.I qquota
provides a status listing of all currently used resource quotas (see
.M xxqs_name_sxx_resource_quota 5 ).
.\"
.TP
.M qresub 1
.I qresub
creates new jobs by copying currently running or pending jobs.
.\"
.TP
.M qrls 1
.I qrls
releases holds from jobs previously assigned to them e.g. via
.M qhold 1
(see above).
.\"
.TP
.M qrdel 1
.I qrdel
provides the means to cancel advance reservations.
.\"
.TP
.M qrsh 1
.I qrsh
can be used for various purposes such as providing remote execution of
interactive applications via xxQS_NAMExx comparable to the standard Unix
facility rsh, to allow for the submission of batch jobs which, upon
execution, support terminal I/O (standard/error output and standard input)
and terminal control, to provide a batch job submission client which
remains active until the job has finished or to allow for the
xxQS_NAMExx-controlled remote execution of the tasks of parallel jobs.
.\"
.TP
.M qrstat 1
.I qrstat
provides a status listing of all advance reservations in the cluster.
.\"
.TP
.M qrsub 1
.I qrsub
is the user interface for submitting an advance reservation to xxQS_NAMExx.
.\"
.TP
.M qselect 1
.I qselect
prints a list of queue names corresponding to specified selection 
criteria. The output of
.I qselect
is usually fed into other xxQS_NAMExx 
commands to apply actions on a selected set of queues. 
.\"
.TP
.M qsh 1
.I qsh
opens an interactive shell (in an
.M xterm 1 )
on a low loaded host. Any kind of
interactive job can be run in this shell.
.\"
.TP
.M qstat 1
.I qstat
provides a status listing of all jobs and queues associated with the
cluster.
.\"
.TP
.M qtcsh 1
.I qtcsh
is a fully compatible replacement for the widely known and used Unix
C-Shell (\fIcsh\fP) derivative \fItcsh\fP. It provides a command-shell
with the extension of transparently distributing execution of
designated applications to suitable and lightly loaded hosts via
xxQS_NAMExx.
.\"
.TP
.M qsub 1
.I qsub
is the user interface for submitting a job to xxQS_NAMExx.
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.M xxqs_name_sxx_ckpt 1 ,
.M qacct 1 ,
.M qalter 1 ,
.M qconf 1 ,
.M qdel 1 ,
.M qhold 1 ,
.M qhost 1 ,
.M qlogin 1 ,
.M qmake 1 ,
.M qmod 1 ,
.M qmon 1 ,
.M qresub 1 ,
.M qrls 1 ,
.M qrsh 1 ,
.M qselect 1 ,
.M qsh 1 ,
.M qstat 1 ,
.M qsub 1 ,
.M qtcsh 1 .
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright: 2008 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
Parts of the manual page texts are Copyright 2011 Univa Corporation,
and various dates by other contributors.
The manual pages are licensed under the Sun Industry Standards Source
License, like the source, except where noted in some files by
other contributors, which are under other free licences noted in their
source.
