'\" t
.\"___INFO__MARK_BEGIN__
.\"
.\" Copyright: 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (C) 2011, 2012 Dave Love, University of Liverpool
.\"
.\"___INFO__MARK_END__
.\"
.\"
.de SB		\" small and bold
.if !"\\$1"" \\s-2\\fB\&\\$1\\s0\\fR\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5
..
.\" "
.de T		\" switch to typewriter font
.ft CW		\" probably want CW if you don't have TA font
..
.\"
.de TY		\" put $1 in typewriter font
.if t .T
.if n ``\c
\\$1\c
.if t .ft P
.if n \&''\c
\\$2
..
.\"
.de M		\" man page reference
\\fI\\$1\\fR\\|(\\$2)\\$3
..
.TH SGE_PASSWD 1 "2012-02-17" "xxRELxx" "xxQS_NAMExx User Commands"
.SH NAME
sgepasswd \- Modify the xxQS_NAMExx password file of xxQS_NAMExx
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNTAX
.B sgepasswd
[[
.B -D domain
]
.B -d user
]
.PP
.B sgepasswd
[
.B -D domain
] [
.B user
]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sgepasswd
modifies the xxQS_NAMExx password file
.M sgepasswd 5 .
.PP
This file contains a list of usernames and their Microsoft Windows password in
encrypted form.
.M sge_execd 8
and
.M sge_shepherd 8
on hosts running Microsoft Windows as operating systems use this
information to start jobs for a certain user.
.PP
Each user can use the
.I sgepasswd
application to add a new entry for their own user account.
(In fact, normal users can create an entry for any account, so the
entry should be made initially, when the account is created.)
It is also possible
to change the stored password with
.I sgepasswd
if the user knows the old one.
.PP
The root user additionally has permission to change the password entries
for other user accounts. Root can also delete existing entries.
.PP
The
.I sgepasswd
binary is only available on non-Windows hosts.
.PP
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-D domain\fP"
By default
.I sgepasswd
will add/modify the current Unix username without a domain specification.
This switch can be used to add a domain specification in front of the
current user name. Consult your Microsoft Windows documentation to get
more information about domain users.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-d user\fP"
Only root can use this parameter to delete entries from the
.M sgepasswd 5
file.
.\"
.IP "\fB\-help\fP"
Prints a listing of all options.
.SH NOTE
Prevent relevant jobs running before a password is changed both with
.I sgepasswd
and in the Windows domain.  Otherwise, if multiple jobs try to run on
a Windows host as the user concerned, and are unable to access the
right password, Windows' intrusion detection system may disable the
account.
.I sgepasswd
and in the Windows domain.
.\"
.SH SECURITY
This is a non-trivial program which needs to be setuid root, operating
with various user-supplied input.  It probably shouldn't be installed setuid if
it is not needed to support Windows hosts.
.PP
See above concerning making initial entries.
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.\"
.IP "\fBSGE_CERTFILE\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the location of the public key file. By default
.I sgepasswd
will use $SGE_ROOT/$SGE_CELL/common/sgeCA/certs/cert.pem.
.\"
.IP "\fBSGE_KEYFILE\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the location of the private key file.
Default is /var/lib/sgeCA/port$SGE_QMASTER_PORT/$SGE_CELL/private/key.pem.
.\"
.IP "\fBSGE_RANDFILE\fP" 1.5i
If set, specifies the location of the seed used to create encrypted
versions of user passwords. Default
is /var/lib/sgeCA/port${SGE_QMASTER_PORT}/${SGE_CELL}/private/rand.seed.
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1 ,
.M sgepasswd 5
.\"
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
See
.M xxqs_name_sxx_intro 1
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
